---json
{
  "documentId": "-19901868",
  "title": "MOPPING UP HIGH CHOLESTEROL",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "8/14/2000 8:54:00 PM",
  "modificationDate": "8/14/2000 8:54:00 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "81",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

By Lindsay Edwards 
 
Wouldn't it be nice to eat what you like and still lower your blood cholesterol level and the risk of heart disease? All of you oatmeal lovers are on the right track. When included in a diet that's also low in saturated fat, oatmeal lowers your cholesterol because it contains soluble fiber. But, the benefits don't stop there. Oatmeal is also low in calories, full of iron, magnesium, and fiber; it's cholesterol free and low in saturated fat and sodium. So confident is the Food and Drug Administration that it has given oatmeal manufacturers the OK to boast of its healthy benefits on their product labels. 

What's the catch? To reap all the benefits of oatmeal, you need to eat approximately one-and-a-half cups of cooked oatmeal everyday to get the amount of soluble fiber necessary to substantially lower your cholesterol. If you can't imagine eating that much oatmeal day after day, then try adding oatmeal to other meals and snacks. Oats are a good substitute for breadcrumbs in meatloaf and can also be used in homemade pancakes and breads. Even oats toasted in the oven and tossed with a little brown sugar make a tasty, crunchy topping for yogurt and cereal. 

If oatmeal just isn't your thing, there are other foods that contain soluble fiber. These foods include dried beans, such as kidney beans, and certain fruits and vegetables. Like oats, these foods are low in saturated fat.
