---json
{
  "documentId": "-2077170540",
  "title": "SHEDDING LIGHT ON LONG-TERM WEIGHT LOSS",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "10/26/1999 8:37:28 AM",
  "modificationDate": "10/26/1999 8:37:28 AM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "81",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

The National Weight Control Registry (NWCR) has been tracking 
successful &quot;losers&quot; since 1993. 

The registry is a database, not a treatment plan, established and 
maintained by researchers at the University of Colorado Health Science Center and the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. It is designed to gather insight and information from individuals who have successfully maintained a significant weight loss. 

In addition to religiously burning an average of 2,800 calories per week through exercise, most NWCR &quot;losers&quot; report succeeding after gaining tighter control of their eating habits. 

While being part of the registry is a big win for many folks, don't think they're overnight success stories. The average registrant is 5 years old and has gone from 220 to 154 pounds, which is a loss of 
about 30 percent of their body weight. Many had been overweight since childhood, and more than 90 percent report multiple weight gains and losses (to the tune of 270 pounds per person) before finding what permanently works for them. About half report being involved in some type of organized weight-management program, while the remainder has gone it alone. 

If you're a successful &quot;loser&quot; and would like to be involved in this worthwhile, ongoing project, contact the NWCR at 1-800-606-6927. To qualify, you must have lost a minimum of 30 pounds and kept it off for at least a year.
