---json
{
  "documentId": "-24999869",
  "title": "Netcom Shell; Installing &quot;ppp&quot;",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "11/25/1998 12:24:36 PM",
  "modificationDate": "11/25/1998 12:24:36 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "68",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

INSTRUCTIONS ON SETTING UP A SHELL ACCOUNT
WITH GRAPHICAL WEB ACCESS
--------------------------------------------------------------------
This will give you PPP emulation with access to
www, news, mail, and Real Audio on a NETCOM Unix shell account.

The most recent version of this document is located at
/ftp/pub/be/beh/setup95.txt

This How-To is for Windows 95 users.

Windows 3.1 and WFW 3.11 users should use the document located at 
/ftp/pub/be/beh/setup.txt

Mac users should use the document located at
/ftp/pub/tr/trygve/webpages/slirp-and-macppp.txt

This document is broken into 5 parts

a  Setting up SLIRP
b  Configuring the Windows95 Dial-Up Networking
c  Installing the Netscape World Wide Web browser
d  Making it all work!       
e  Problem solving and other stuff


Setting up SLIRP

a1. Login to NETCOM
a2. Enter the following commands at the NETCOM prompt:
    cd
    ln -s /u2/beh/pub/slirp
    cp /ftp/pub/be/beh/www/.slirprc95 .slirprc
    cp /ftp/pub/be/beh/www/ppp95 ppp

NOTE: If your communications program supports Zmodem, use &quot;sz&quot;
    instead of &quot;sx&quot; in the next step. Terminal supports &quot;sx&quot;.
    You may already have a browser (MS PLUS pack, etc.) and not
    need this step. This is Netscape 1.0 16-bit. See &quot;e7&quot; about 32-bit 
    Netscape.   

    sz /ftp/pub/be/beh/www/ns16-100.exe

a3. Type &quot;slirp&quot;, you should see the message:
    Slirp v1.0c (RELEASE)
    Copyright (c) 1995,1996 Danny Gasparovski and others.
    All rights reserved.
    This program is copyrighted, free software.          
    -------------- STUFF DELETED --------------------------
    [autodetect SLIP/CSLIP, MTU 1500, MRU 1500, 57600 baud]
    SLiRP Ready ...
a4. Type five zeroes (0) to exit. This should bring you back to the 
    NETCOM prompt. You may have to do this a few times to get to the  
    prompt. 
a5. Type &quot;ppp&quot;, you should see the message:
    Slirp v1.0c (RELEASE)
    Copyright (c) 1995,1996 Danny Gasparovski and others.
    All rights reserved.
    This program is copyrighted, free software.      
    -------------- STUFF DELETED --------------------------    
    [talking PPP, 57600 baud]
    SLiRP Ready ...
a6. Because the &quot;ppp&quot; file starts Slirp with the &quot;exec&quot; command, your 
    shell proccess may have been terminated. You may not be able to
return
    to the NETCOM prompt with the &quot;0&quot;'s thing. If so, just hangup the
modem
a7. We have now successfully setup and tested SLIRP.
a8. &quot;a8&quot; is for reference. You do not NEED any of &quot;a8&quot; for section
&quot;b&quot;.
    Your PPP setings are:
    IP Address = 10.0.2.15
    Subnet Mask = 255.255.255.0
    gateway = 192.100.81.254
    host name = beh  (your login name, &quot;beh&quot; is mine)
    domain name = netcom.com
    dns servers = 199.182.120.203 199.182.120.202 (thanks to
netcruiser) 
    domain suffix = netcom.com
    host IP = 10.0.2.2  (use telnet://10.0.2.2 for a local host
prompt)

    The next 3 items are very useful in setting up Netscape 2.0

    NNTP server = 10.0.2.1  (news server)   
    SMTP server = 10.0.2.2  (mail server) or smtp.ix.netcom.com
    POP  server = 10.0.2.2  (post office)

Configuring the Windows95 Dial-Up Networking

b1. Eliminating other WINSOCK.DLLs

   1. Click the Start button in Windows 95. 
   2. Click Find. 
   3. Select Files or Folders. 
   4. Type WINSOCK.DLL in the Named Box. 
   5. Make sure Look In is set to the C: Drive. 
   6. Click Find Now. 

The Microsoft WINSOCK.DLL is in the &bsol;&bsol;WINDOWS&bsol;&bsol; Directory. 
All other WINSOCK.DLL files should be renamed to WINSOCK.OLD by
clicking on the filename and selecting Rename from the File pull-down
menu. 

b2. Making sure Dial-Up Networking is installed

   1. Click Start. 
   2. Select Settings. 
   3. Select Control Panel. 
   4. Double-click the Add/Remove Programs Icon. 
   5. Select the Windows Setup Tab. 
   6. Single-click Communications, then press the Details button. 
   7. The Dial-Up Networking item should be checked. If it isn't,
check
      it. You may be prompted for your Windows95 Disks or CD-ROM.
      Click OK. 

Note: The following steps assumes you have the Dial-Up Networking
support installed. 

b3. Making sure the Dial-Up Adapter and TCP/IP Protocol are
installed

   1. Click Start. 
   2. Select Settings. 
   3. Select Control Panel. 
   4. Double-click the Network Icon. 
   5. Verify the Dial-Up Adapter is present. If it isn't: 
          Click Add. 
          Double-Click Adapter. 
          Scroll down the list and select Microsoft. 
          Choose the Dial-Up Adapter and click OK.
          You may be prompted for your Windows95 Disks or CD-ROM.
          Click OK. 
   6. Verify the TCP/IP Protocol is present. If it isn't: 
          Click Add. 
          Double-Click Protocol. 
          Scroll down the list and select Microsoft. 
          Choose TCP/IP and click OK.
          You may be prompted for your Windows95 Disks or CD-ROM.
          Click OK. 
   7. Click OK until you are asked to restart the system. After you
      restart, proceed to the next step.

b4. Setting up the connection

   1. Double-click the My Computer Icon. 
   2. Double-click the Dial-Up Networking Icon. 
   3. Type in Netcom for the name of the computer you want to connect
to 
   4. Your modem should already be displayed. If it isn't, consult
your
      Windows95 documentation for information on how to set up your
modem
      for use with Windows95. 
   5. Click Next&gt;. 
   6. Leave the Area Code field BLANK. 
      Type in the phone number for your local Netcom access point,
      putting in any special codes to disable call waiting or to get
an
      ouside line. Most people will just need to put in the 7-digit
phone
      number with no other modifications. 
   7. Click Next&gt;, then Finish. 
   8. Single-click the new Netcom icon with the RIGHT mouse button,
and
      select Properties. 
   9. In the Phone Number section, make sure the Use Country Code and
      Area Code option is not checked. 
  10. Click the Server Type Button. 
  11. The Type of Dial-Up Server should be set to PPP: Windows95,
      WindowsNT 3.5, Internet 
  12. In the Advanced Options Section, make sure: 
          Enable Software Compression should be Checked 
          Log On to Network should NOT be Checked 
          Require Encrypted Password should NOT be Checked 
          TCP/IP should be the only protocol enabled. Disable IPX and
          NetBUEI. 
  13. Click on TCP/IP Settings. 
  14. Make sure Server Assigned IP Address is selected. 
  15. Make sure Specify Name Server Addresses is selected. 
  16. Put in the following DNS Server IP Addresses: 
    (These are the DNS addresses from the Netcruiser FAQ & work great) 
          199.182.120.203 - Primary DNS Server 
          199.182.120.202 - Secondary DNS Server 
  17. For the Primary and Secondary WINS configuration, leave them
      at 0.0.0.0
  18. Use IP Header Compression should be Checked. 
  19. Use Default Gateway on Remote Network should be Checked. 
  20. Click OK twice. 
  21. Click the Configure Button
  22. Click Options
  23. Make sure Bring up terminal window after dialing is selected.
  24. Click General 
  25. Make sure Maximaum speed is set at 57600
  26. Click OK twice

Installing the Netscape World Wide Web browser
(Skip this if you already have a browser, i.e Plus Pack)

c1. Create sub-directory c:&bsol;&bsol;temp in Windows
c2. Copy ns16-100.exe to an empty directory
c3. &quot;Run&quot; ns16-100.exe 
c4. &quot;Run&quot; setup.exe to install Netscape in the desired directory


Making it all work!

d1. Double-click the new Netcom Icon. You will be prompted for your
    username and password.
d2. Click Connect
d3. Post Dial Terminal Screen should come up
d4. Login with your username and password
d5. At the Netcom prompt type &quot;ppp&quot; and enter
d6. After &quot;Slirp ready ...&quot; appears, click on &quot;continue&quot;
d7. Now click on the Netscape icon
d8. When your ready to exit NETCOM, close all of your winsock 
    applications (Netscape, Telnet, etc.) and disconnect


Problem solving and other stuff

e1. Windows 95 has a very good Telnet program in the Windows
    directory. After setting it up with &quot;Options&quot; in Netscape.
    Do telnet://10.0.2.2/ to get to a NETCOM prompt. Because we
    started Slirp with the exec command, you should not receive
    any &quot;multiple login&quot; nasty grams from NETCOM.
e2. Most pictures on the Web have a higher color resolution than
    256 colors. Do My Computer -&gt; Control Panel -&gt; Display -&gt;
    Settings and select a color pallet with higher color resolution
    for advanced video cards, such as 16 bit. 
e3. If you get hard DNS lookup errors try this
    http://198.95.249.77/  This is the same as
http://www.netscape.com/
    If it works, look at your DNS server entries. Use the shell
command
    &quot;ping -s&quot; for other IP addresses to test. Ping is in /usr/etc
e4. Netcom doesn't support Slirp. Check out 
/ftp/pub/be/beh/policy.txt
    You should post problems to netcom.shell.general,
netcom.shell.www,
    alt.dcom.slip-emulators newsgroups or e-mail me at beh@netcom.com
e5. You just can't get Slirp to work. You click on the NETCOM icon, 
    &quot;Connect&quot;, do &quot;ppp&quot;, &quot;continue&quot;, and it just hangs. There may be
some 
    values in the &quot;master&quot; TCP/IP settings. Do My Computer -&gt; Control
    Panel -&gt; Network -&gt; TCP/IP -&gt; Properties. There should be no
entries. 
    Everything should be &quot;Disable&quot;, &quot;none&quot;, or &quot;obtain automatically&quot;.
e6. If Auto Dial (Plus Pack only feature?) stops working, check that 
    url.dll hasn't been deleted from the windows&bsol;&bsol;system directory.
    Sometimes when you un-install Netscape, it will delete this file.
e7. More goodies:

    My bookmark file on NETCOM (don't &quot;ftp.netcom.com&quot;, just &quot;cd&quot;)
    /ftp/pub/be/beh/bookmark.html

    My Windows 95 dial-up script on NETCOM (for the Plus Pack version)
    /ftp/pub/be/beh/www/netcom.scp

    Advanced scripting tool URL (same as Plus Pack)
    http://www.microsoft.com/kb/softlib/mslfiles/dscrpt.exe

    The latest Netscape software URL
    (1.0 is old 16-bit, get the new 32-bit stuff, 2.0 is super)
    http://www.netscape.com/

    Real Audio URL (ABC, NPR, VOA are just waiting to be listened to)
    Version 1.0 and 2.0 should work without modifing the .slirprc file
    http://www.realaudio.com/

    News Xpress URL (Great for decoding pictures)
    ftp://ftp.hk.super.net/pub/windows95/wskutil/

    CWS Apps List
    http://cws.wilmington.net/

    Text files on creating web pages, slirp binaries, I-phone, etc.
    /u2/beh/pub/how-to

    Widgets for Microsoft Exchange (if you must, ugh)
    http://www.halcyon.com/goetter/widgets.htm

Special thanks to seligman@netcom.com for writing the NNTP program
that
enables us to read NETCOM's news spool. This file is pointed to in the
.slirprc file and I have put a copy at /u2/beh/pub/nntpd

Last updated 03/15/96

Suggestions and corrections welcomed
beh@netcom.com

&lt;OTHER STUFF&gt;
cd
 rm slirp
 link -s /u1/nuglops/bin/slirp

To change your NNTPD link (so you can read the NETCOM news spool),
do the following at the NETCOM shell prompt

 cd
 pico .slirprc

 Change the line that is     add exec /u2/beh/pub/nntpd:nntp
 to                          add exec /u13/seligman/bin/nntpd:nntp

&lt;MORE OTHER STUFF&gt;

pub/be/beh/setup95.txt

a1. Login to NETCOMa2.

Enter the following commands at the NETCOM prompt:

cd    ln -s /u2/beh/pub/slirp
cp /ftp/pub/be/beh/www/.slirprc95 .slirprc
cp /ftp/pub/be/beh/www/ppp95 ppp

a3. Type &quot;slirp&quot;, you should see the message:
    Slirp v1.0c (RELEASE)
    Copyright (c) 1995,1996 Danny Gasparovski and others.
    All rights reserved.
    This program is copyrighted, free software.
    -------------- STUFF DELETED --------------------------
    [autodetect SLIP/CSLIP, MTU 1500, MRU 1500, 57600 baud]
    SLiRP Ready ...
a4. Type five zeroes (0) to exit. This should bring you back to the
    NETCOM prompt. You may have to do this a few times to get to the
    prompt.
a5. Type &quot;ppp&quot;, you should see the message:
    Slirp v1.0c (RELEASE)
    Copyright (c) 1995,1996 Danny Gasparovski and others.
    All rights reserved.
    This program is copyrighted, free software.
