---json
{
  "documentId": "-255839861",
  "title": "Email Blurb: Acceptance Letter (HTML)",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "5/23/2002 10:09:04 AM",
  "modificationDate": "5/23/2002 10:09:04 AM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "80",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Thanks:

Thank you for your submission to the kinte space! We would like to present your work on our WWW site. The form of the presentation will be an HTML page &quot;type set&quot; with Cascading Style Sheets. This is the most versitile way of publishing your work on the World Wide Web.


Rights:

You have the right to duplicate the www.kintespace.com page(s) marked with your copyright. Duplication includes printing hard copies. You do not have the right to change its contents or sell it without written permission from Bryan Wilhite.


Publication Date:

You will be notified along with other Haley's Comet recipients when your presentation is ready for publication. Choose a time scale like that of traditional publishing when you judge how far away your publication date is.


Additional Material:

We strongly suggest that you provide us with a bio or background prose about your submitted work. Please provide any published books or audio CDs that you found inspiring. If you are a published writer (meaning you have bound material with an ISBN number assigned to it) please let us know!


Self-Promotion:

If you are in the healthy habit of self-promotion (remember it's not bragging if you can back it up), please mention where some of your online work is---especially your work published in the kinte space!


Thanks again!
