---json
{
  "documentId": "-443345831",
  "title": "Book: Access 97 Power Programming; Chapter 3 Highlights (1/3): &quot;Working with Application Collections And Data Access Objects&quot;",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "1998-10-01T20:42:08.000Z",
  "modificationDate": "1998-10-01T20:42:08.000Z",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "64",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Declaring a Collection Variable

A user-defined collection is a new instance of a collection object. Its &quot;instancing&quot; requires the New keyword. The abbreviated way of declaring a new collection object has the form:

    Dim &lt;my collection object variable&gt; as New Collection

e.g.

    Dim colExample as New Collection

This form is useful at procedure level in the code module. However the non-abbreviated way of delcaring any new object uses two statements instead of one. The first statement is in the declarations section of the module:

    Public p_colExample as Collection

This object variable is now avaible for use and re-use throughout the application. At the procedure level, we can Set this variable equal to a New Collection:

    Set p_colExample = New Collection

Although this appears redundant, it is now possible to quickly destroy the contents of a collection with the code:

   Set p_colExample = Nothing

Now this collection object variable can be reused in other modules.


Index Numbers in Collections

Intrinsic Access collections are 0-based while user-defined collection indices are 1-based.


For a detailed discussion of how collections differ from arrays, please see &quot;Creating Custom Collections&quot; (pg. 67) and &quot;Comparing Custom Collections to Arrays&quot; (pg. 70).


The Access Object Model

The Access Object Model is a containment hierarchy that begins with the Application object. Please see &quot;Accessing the Access Object Model&quot; (pg. 73). Here are some noted methods of the Application object:

Application. Echo
Application.GetOption
Application.SetOption


The Screen Object

The Screen object is of the Application object. Here are some noted properties of the Screen object:

Screen. ActiveForm
Screen.ActiveReport
Screen.ActiveControl
Screen.PreviousControl

Note that there is no need to specify the Application keyword in code within Access.
