---json
{
  "documentId": "-701874391",
  "title": "JavaScript: FORM Validation; the submit() Method of the form Object",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "1999-03-05T19:04:57.000Z",
  "modificationDate": "1999-03-05T19:04:57.000Z",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "67",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

If you must validate a FORM before it is sent to the server, you will have to depend on the browser to faithfully execute the submit() method of the form object. Most Mozilla 3.x/4.x browsers support this method.

For example we can set up a function called &quot;jsSendForm()&quot; that takes a form object as an argument. So if the FORM element name is &quot;frmOne&quot; we can then call:

    jsSendForm(window.document.frmOne)

or, if frmOne is the only form in the document, we alternatively have:

    jsSendForm(window.document.forms[0])

or, if frmOne is being called from an event (usually the onClick event) in an element inside frmOne we have:

    jsSendForm(this.form)

where jsSendForm() looks like this:

    function jsSendForm(vForm) {
        vFrmValid
        //Form validation code goes here.
        //If validation fails, vFrmValid=False
        if (vFrmValid) {
            vForm.submit
            window.document.close
        }
        else { &bsol;&bsol;&bsol;&bsol;Do something for invalid data. }
    }

One technique is to call this function from the onClick event of the INPUT element. Instead of using an INPUT element of TYPE &quot;submit&quot; we can use the following:

    &lt;INPUT
        TYPE=button
        VALUE=&quot;Send&quot;
        onCLick=&quot;jsSendForm(this.form)&quot;&gt;

NOTE: Some browsers (namely some Netscape browsers) will ignore the submit() method of a form object where the FORM elements ACTION property contains &quot;mailto:&quot; protocol. This is done for security reasons.
