---json
{
  "documentId": "-93314486",
  "title": "Visual InterDev and Seagate Crystal Reports: Notes on Data Definition Files and the Convert Database Driver... Command",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "4/22/1999 8:48:30 PM",
  "modificationDate": "4/22/1999 8:48:30 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "77",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Crystal Web Reporting services have proven themselves to be somewhat &quot;ok&quot; in my Visual InterDev Solutions. My design uses an MTS package that provides data services to pass recordsets to Crystal Report objects. These objects are passed via very expensive (but required) Session-level object variables to the Viewer. (I am using Crystal's Java viewer by the way: it runs very slow on Netscape 4.x but &quot;mysteriously&quot; fast in IE 4.x.)

The Crystal *.RPT files must be prepared for this kind of service. These *.RPT files are made &quot;server independent&quot; with the use of Data Definition Files (.TTX files). Since I am working in a team environment on machines with different versions of Crystal Reports, I built a tool called the Crystal DDF Utility that can make .TTX files without running the Designer application. All this utility needs is database logon information a .TTX file to write to and SQL to generate a Recordset. You can find this utility in a self-extracting .CAB file at:

http://www.kintespace.com/kb/util/CrystDDF/CrystDDF.EXE

After the .TTX file is created, we need to prepare the .RPT file. Here is a summary of the steps involved:

* Make sure File &gt; Save Data with Report is disabled.

* Verify that there are no database server references under Location in the Set Location dialog (Database &gt; Set Location...).

* Select Database &gt; Convert Database Driver...

* Select Convert Database Driver on next Refresh.

* Select To: &gt; pdsmon.dll [ADO, RDO, DAO]

* When the Select Data Source dialog appears, select Data Definition.

* Enter the .TTX file you created.

* Answer yes to &quot;Fix Up&quot; the report.

* Save and Close.

WARNING: There is a bug involved with the Select Data Source dialog. It seems to only run once per 32-bit designer session. You may have to close and open the Designer application several times to prepare several reports.
