---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071930",
  "title": "“Installing VMware Tools from the Command Line with the Tar Installer”; http://www.vmware.com/support/ws55/doc/ws_newguest_tools_linux.html#wp1127177",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "12/28/2007 10:35:53 AM",
  "modificationDate": "12/28/2007 10:35:53 AM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "73",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Installing VMware Tools from the Command Line with the Tar Installer

The first steps are performed on the host, within Workstation menus:

1. Power on the virtual machine.

2. After the guest operating system has started, prepare your virtual machine to install VMware Tools.

Choose VM &gt; Install VMware Tools.

The remaining steps take place inside the virtual machine.

3. As root (su -), mount the VMware Tools virtual CD-ROM image, change to a working directory (for example, /tmp), uncompress the installer, then unmount the CD-ROM image.

Note: Some Linux distributions automatically mount CD-ROMs. If your distribution uses automounting, do not use the mount and umount commands below. You still must untar the VMware Tools installer to /tmp.

Some Linux distributions use different device names or organize the /dev directory differently. If your CD-ROM drive is not /dev/cdrom or if the mount point for a CD-ROM is not /mnt/cdrom, you must modify the following commands to reflect the conventions used by your distribution.

mount /dev/cdrom /mnt/cdrom

cd /tmp

Note: If you have a previous installation, delete the previous vmware-distrib directory before installing. The default location of this directory is
/tmp/vmware-tools-distrib.

4. Untar the VMware Tools tar file:

tar zxpf /mnt/cdrom/VMwareTools-5.0.0-&lt;xxxx&gt;.tar.gz

umount /dev/cdrom

Where &lt;xxxx&gt; is the build/revision number of the VMware Workstation release.

Note: If you attempt to install a tar installation over an rpm installation — or the reverse — the installer detects the previous installation and must convert the installer database format before continuing.

5. Run the VMware Tools tar installer:

cd vmware-tools-distrib

./vmware-install.pl

Respond to the configuration questions on the screen. Press Enter to accept the default value.

6. Log off of the root account.

exit

7. Start X and your graphical environment.

8. In an X terminal, launch the VMware Tools background application.

vmware-toolbox &

Note: You may run VMware Tools as root or as a normal user. To shrink virtual disks, you must run VMware Tools as root (su -).
