---json
{
  "documentId": "2076072086",
  "title": "“Fixing those pesky DCOM event log error 10016 in a SharePoint farm environment”; soerennielsen.wordpress.com",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "12/2/2008 2:32:07 PM",
  "modificationDate": "12/2/2008 2:32:07 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "79",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Event Type: Error
Event Source: DCOM
Event Category: None
Event ID: 10016
Date: 1/17/2007
Time: 4:31:48 AM
User: &lt;DOMAIN&gt;&bsol;&bsol;sa_adm
Computer: &lt;SERVER&gt;
Description:

The application-specific permission settings do not grant Local Activation permission for the COM Server application with CLSID

{61738644-F196-11D0-9953-00C04FD919C1}

to the user &lt;DOMAIN&gt;&bsol;&bsol;sa_adm SID (S-1-5-21-162740987-2502514208-3469184634-1119). This security permission can be modified using the Component Services administrative tool.

For more information, see Help and Support Center at http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/events.asp.

…

The error listed above is that the user running the Central Administration web application doesn’t have access to activate (instantiate) the IIS WAMREG admin Service object (search the registry for the CLSID).

…

On each SharePoint server do the following:

    1. Click Start, Click Run, type “dcomcnfg” and click ok
    2. Expand Component Services / Computers / My Computer / DCOM Config
    3. Right click IIS WAMREG admin Service and choose Properties
    4. Click the Security tag
    5. Click Edit under Launch and Activation Permissions
    6. Click Add
    7. In the Select Users, Computers or Groups type computername&bsol;&bsol;WSS_WPG and
computername&bsol;&bsol;WSS_ADMIN_WPG
    8. Click ok
    9. In the Permissions for UserName list, click to select the Allow check box
    10. Click Ok twice.
    11. Go back to the main Component Services window, right click the “netman” node and select Properties
    12. Click the security tab
    13. Click Edit under Activation Permissions
    14. Click Add on the Launch Permissons Dialog
    15. Enter “NETWORK SERVICE” in the edit box
    16. Click Ok
    17. Enable all the checkboxes for the NETWORK SERVICE
    18. Click Ok twice
    19. Finally, run “IISReset”

[http://soerennielsen.wordpress.com/2007/04/16/
    fixing-those-pesky-dcom-event-log-error-10016-in-a-sharepoint-farm-environment/]
