---json
{
  "documentId": "2076072315",
  "title": "CSS 2.1 Summary of Selectors; Pseudo Classes; w3.org",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "10/16/2009 8:27:11 PM",
  "modificationDate": "10/16/2009 8:27:11 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "67",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Universal selector: *
Matches any element.

Type selectors: E
Matches any E element (i.e., an element of type E).

Descendant selectors:E F
Matches any F element that is a descendant of an E element.

Child selectors: E &gt; F
Matches any F element that is a child of an element E.

The :first-child pseudo-class: E:first-child
Matches element E when E is the first child of its parent.
 	
The link pseudo-classes:
    E:link
    E:visited 
Matches element E if E is the source anchor of a hyperlink of which the target is not yet visited (:link) or already visited (:visited).

The dynamic pseudo-classes:
    E:active
    E:hover
    E:focus
Matches E during certain user actions. 	

The :lang() pseudo-class: E:lang(c)
Matches element of type E if it is in (human) language c (the document language specifies how language is determined).

Adjacent selectors: E + F
Matches any F element immediately preceded by a sibling element E.

Attribute selectors: E[foo]
Matches any E element with the &quot;foo&quot; attribute set (whatever the value).

Attribute selectors: E[foo=&quot;warning&quot;]
Matches any E element whose &quot;foo&quot; attribute value is exactly equal to &quot;warning&quot;.

Attribute selectors: E[foo~=&quot;warning&quot;]
Matches any E element whose &quot;foo&quot; attribute value is a list of space-separated values, one of which is exactly equal to &quot;warning&quot;. 

Attribute selectors: E[lang|=&quot;en&quot;]
Matches any E element whose &quot;lang&quot; attribute has a hyphen-separated list of values beginning (from the left) with &quot;en&quot;.

Class selectors: DIV.warning
Language specific. (In HTML, the same as DIV[class~=&quot;warning&quot;].)

ID selectors: E#myid
Matches any E element with ID equal to &quot;myid&quot;.

[http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/selector.html]
