---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071790",
  "title": "JavaServer Faces in Action Notes: Chapter 1; Introducing JavaServer Faces; 1.3.1 Why do we need frameworks?; 1.3.2 She's a Model 2; 1.3.3 JSF, Struts, and other frameworks",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "2/27/2007 4:22:07 PM",
  "modificationDate": "2/27/2007 4:22:07 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "69",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

1.3.1 Why do we need frameworks?

&quot;Forms are just one example of tasks that servlets and JSP don't completely solve. Web applications have to manage a lot of pages and images, and referencing all of those elements within larger applications can become a nightmare if you don't have a central way of managing it.&quot;

&quot;Although JSP provides a simple mechanism for creating a dynamic page, it doesn't provide extensive support for composing a page out of smaller, reusable parts. Other fun things that servlets don't handle include internationalization, type conversion, and error handling.&quot;


1.3.2 She's a Model 2

The MVC analogy: &quot;When you watch a story on the news, you view a version of reality. ...The news channel is controlling the interaction between the TV program---the view---and the actual event---the model.&quot;

&quot;...most frameworks, including JSF, support some variation of the MVC design pattern.&quot;


1.3.3 JSF, Struts, and other frameworks

Java frameworks have a lot of overlap. A lot of this has to do with the &quot;open&quot; nature of Java culture, which could easily be mistaken for a state of affairs just short of total chaos.

There is the idea that JSF and Struts &quot;compete&quot; or that JSF replaces Struts. The lead developer of Struts, Craig McClanahan, also played a large role in the development of JSF. For more details see &quot;Struts Or JSF? Struts And JSF?&quot; here:

    http://blogs.sun.com/craigmcc/entry/struts_or_jsf_struts_and
