---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071794",
  "title": "JavaServer Faces in Action Notes: Chapter 1; Introducing JavaServer Faces; 1.5.1 Dissecting hello.jsp",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "2007-03-08T23:02:57.000Z",
  "modificationDate": "2007-03-08T23:02:57.000Z",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "69",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

1.5.1 Dissecting hello.jsp

The tag library indicated by http://java.sun.com/jsf/core provides for validation, event handling and the like.

The tag library indicated by http://java.sun.com/jsf/html provides for the JSF UI components like text boxes, output labels and forms.

&quot;The &lt;f:view&gt; custom tag must enclose all other Faces-related tags...&quot;

The HtmlOutputText component, represented by the &lt;h:outputText&gt; tag, represents all read-only text generated by JSF. It follows that the HtmlOutputLabel component (&lt;h:outputLabel&gt;) encloses an &lt;h:outputText&gt; tag to display its data.

The HtmlMessage component (&lt;h:message&gt;) displays validation and conversion errors for a specific component, identified by its for attribute.

#{helloBean.numControls} is an example of JSF Expression Language (EL) used to bind backing bean data to JSF components.

&quot;Faces will automatically search the different scopes of the web application (request, session, application) for the specified backing bean.&quot;

&quot;JSF also supports validators, which are responsible for making sure that the user enters an acceptable value.&quot;

The HtmlPanelGrid component renders as a &lt;table&gt; element.

The HtmlCommandButton has action and actionListener properties that can be bound to backing bean methods. The action method takes no parameters, and returns a String which is passed to the NavigationHandler. The actionListener method takes an ActionEvent parameter and has a return type of void.

When HtmlCommandButton.immediate = true, this means that this component's value must be converted and validated during the Apply Request phase, rather than waiting for the Process Validations phase.
