---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071696",
  "title": "MCAD/MCSD Notes: Chapter 7, Lesson 5; Consuming XML Web Services",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "2005-07-29T22:58:46.000Z",
  "modificationDate": "2005-07-29T22:58:46.000Z",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "83",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Lesson 5: Consuming XML Web Services

This lesson is a very brief overview of Web services support in the .NET Framework. The concept of the &quot;Microsoft WebService Behavior&quot; is introduced here.

* &quot;XML Web services are business logic components that can be accessed over the Internet.&quot;

The above quote is listed here for 'posterity' as the use of the term &quot;business logic&quot; is by now threadbare!

* &quot;XML Web services are made public over the Web using a Universal Description, Discovery, and Integration (UDDI) registry. Currently, Microsoft and IBM manage two UDDI nodes available for locating XML Web services.&quot;

As of this writing, IBM, Microsoft, NTT Communications, and SAP jointly own the registry. For more information, see:

    http://uddi.org/find.html

* &quot;Using an XML Web service is much the same as using a .NET or COM component: you establish a reference to the class, create an instance of an object from the class, and then use the object's properties and methods within your code.&quot;

The opinion here is that this a true Microsoft innovation. Adding a Web Reference in Visual Studio .NET, automatically creates WSDL (Web Services Description Language) for SOAP calls through a proxy class. For a Microsoft-centric understanding of WDSL, see &quot;Understanding WSDL&quot; at:

    http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/en-us/dnwebsrv/html/understandWSDL.asp

The following is a SOAP call to Amazon.com:

    com.amazon.soap.AmazonSearchService ws =
        new com.amazon.soap.AmazonSearchService();
    com.amazon.soap.AsinRequest req =
        new MCSDWebAppsCS.com.amazon.soap.AsinRequest();
    com.amazon.soap.ProductInfo info =
        new MCSDWebAppsCS.com.amazon.soap.ProductInfo();

    req.asin = &quot;0782113273&quot;;
    req.devtag = &quot;XXXXXXXXXXXXXX&quot;;
    req.tag = &quot;thekintespacec00A&quot;;
    req.type = &quot;lite&quot;;

    info = ws.AsinSearchRequest(req);
    com.amazon.soap.Details product = info.Details[0];
    body.InnerHtml = String.Format(&quot;Product Name: {0}&quot;,product.ProductName);

* &quot;In some cases it makes more sense to call an XML Web service from client-side scripts than from server code.&quot;

The Microsoft WebService Behavior is one asynchronous solition to the problem of waiting on Web services. The sample code for this lesson includes a &quot;WebService Behavior&quot; HTC file that has over 2000 lines of code! For more information, see &quot;Using the WebService Behavior&quot; at:

   http://msdn.microsoft.com/workshop/author/webservice/using.asp
