---json
{
  "documentId": "2076072241",
  "title": "“How to configure and use Text-to-Speech in Windows XP and in Windows Vista”; Windows Narrator",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "9/8/2009 9:54:36 PM",
  "modificationDate": "9/8/2009 9:54:36 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "79",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Configure Text-to-Speech Options

Determine the Selected TTS Voice or Engine
To determine the selected Text-to-Speech voice, follow these steps:

   1. Click Start, click Control Panel, and then double-click Speech.

      On the Text-to-Speech tab, the displayed name in the Voice selection drop-down list is the currently active voice.
   2. Click Preview Voice to hear the active voice. The text is spoken and the words are highlighted as they are spoken. 

Preview TTS Voice
To preview the Text-to-Speech voice, follow these steps:

   1. Click Start, click Control Panel, and then double-click Speech.

      On the Text-to-Speech tab, the displayed name in the Voice selection drop-down list is the active voice.
   2. Click Preview Voice to hear the currently selected voice. The text is spoken and the words are highlighted as they are spoken.
   3. During playback, Preview Voice will change to Stop. Click Stop to interrupt the voice playback. 

NOTE:You can change the text to be read by the Preview Voice by highlighting the text and typing in new text. These changes are not permanent and when you reopen Speech properties or select a different voice, the text will reset to the default.

Change the TTS Voice or Engine
To change the Text-to-Speech voice or engine, follow these steps:

   1. Click Start, click Control Panel, and then double-click Speech.
   2. On the Text-to-Speech tab, the name displayed in the Voice selection drop-down list is the active voice.
   3. Click the active voice inside the drop-down list, or use the arrow to display a list of available voices.
   4. Click a new voice to select it.

      The newly selected voice speaks the text in Preview Voice box.
   5. Click OK or Apply to accept the new voice. 

Notes:

    * A Text-to-Speech voice is closely associated with a particular speech engine. It may not be clear from the displayed name which language a voice is using. After selecting a speech engine or voice, test the voice and language by clicking Preview Voice.
    * The language or voices supported by a speech engine may not be obvious from the engine's displayed name. Refer to the specific user's guide for detailed information about the engine. This includes not only the language supported, but also the lexicon purpose. The lexicon purpose indicates whether it is a general grammar or jargon specific to a profession such as legal or medical.
    * Microsoft does not provide additional speech engines (voices), but a number of third-party products are available that support the new Microsoft Speech API. For information on these products, visit the following Microsoft Web site:
      http://www.microsoft.com/speech/evaluation/thirdparty/engines.mspx (http://www.microsoft.com/speech/evaluation/thirdparty/engines.mspx) 

Change TTS Voice Rate
To change the Text-to-Speech voice rate, follow these steps:

   1. Click Start, click Control Panel, and then double-click Speech.
   2. Select the Text-to-Speech tab.
   3. Move the Voice speed slider to change the rate of the Text-to-Speech voice. By default, it is set to Normal.
   4. Click Preview Voice to hear the currently selected voice at the new rate. The text is spoken and the words are highlighted as they are spoken. 

To Change the Text-to-Speech Volume

To adjust the volume output levels, follow the procedure below. Note that not all devices support this option in the same way. Some devices will not support volume control and the Volume button will be unavailable. Other devices may use their own display. In those cases, follow the instructions presented on the screen or documented separately with the engine.

   1. Click Start, click Control Panel, and then double-click Speech.
   2. On the Text-to-Speech tab, click Audio Output, and then click Volume.
   3. A volume control mixer will be displayed. Adjust the appropriate device to the required level. 

Using Text-to-Speech with Narrator

Narrator is a Text-to-Speech utility for users who are blind or have impaired vision. Narrator reads what is displayed on your screen: the contents of the active window, menu options, or the text that you type.

Narrator is designed to work with the Notepad, WordPad, Control Panel programs, Microsoft Internet Explorer, the Windows desktop, and Windows Setup. Narrator may not read words aloud correctly in other programs.

Narrator has a number of options that allow you to customize the way screen elements are read.

    * You can have new windows, menus, or shortcut menus read aloud when they are displayed.
    * You can have typed characters read aloud.
    * You can have the mouse pointer follow the active item on the screen.
    * You can adjust the speed, volume, or pitch of the voice. 

The accessibility tools included with Windows are intended to provide a minimum level of functionality for users with special needs. Most users with disabilities will need utility programs with more advanced functionality for daily use.

Narrator is not available for all languages and is only supported on the English version of Windows XP and Windows Vista.

To Have Narrator Announce Events on the Screen

1. Start Narrator by using one of the following methods:
          * Click Start, point to Programs, point to Accessories, point to Accessibility, and then click Narrator.
            -or-
          * Press CTRL+ESC, press R, type narrator, and then press ENTER. 
2. In the Narrator dialog box, select the Announce events on screen check box. 

To Have Narrator Read Typed Keys Aloud

1. Press CTRL+ESC, press R, type narrator, and then press ENTER.
2. Select the Read typed characters check box. 

To Have the Mouse Pointer Move to Active Items When You Use Narrator

1. Press CTRL+ESC, press R, type narrator, and then press ENTER.
2. Select the Move mouse pointer to the active item check box. 

Navigating with the Keyboard and Narrator

Reading options

    * To read an entire window, click the window and then press CTRL+SHIFT+SPACEBAR.
    * To get information about the current item, press CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER.
    * To get a more detailed description of an item, press CTRL+SHIFT+INSERT.
    * To read the title bar of a window, press ALT+HOME.
    * To read the status bar of a window, press ALT+END.
    * To read the contents of an edit field, press CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER, or use the arrow keys.
    * To silence the speech, press CTRL. 

Keyboard Options

    * To switch to another program, press ALT+TAB.
    * To switch to the next button or tool, press TAB. To go back, press SHIFT+TAB.
    * To select an item from a drop-down list, use the arrow keys.
    * To select a check box or option button, press SPACEBAR.
    * To open Utility Manager, press the Windows logo key+U. 

To Set Narrator Voice Options

1. Press CTRL+ESC, press R, type narrator, and then press ENTER. Click Voice.

2. In the Voice Settings dialog box, select the voice options that you want to change:
     * To change the speed of the voice, click a number in the Speed box.
     * To change the volume of the voice, click a number in the Volume box.
     * To change the pitch of the voice, click a number in the Pitch box. 

Note: When you change voice settings, it may take from a few seconds to a minute before the new settings take effect. 

To Start Narrator Minimized

You may find it useful to run Narrator minimized (after you have set the options in Narrator), because you do not need to see the Narrator dialog box when Narrator is running.

1. Press CTRL+ESC, press R, type narrator, and then press ENTER.

2. Select the Start Narrator minimized check box. 

Troubleshooting Text-to-Speech

To determine if Text-to-Speech is working properly, use the following tests.

   1. Click Start, click Control Panel, and then double-click Speech.

   2. On the Text-to-Speech tab, click Preview Voice. The text in Preview Voice should be spoken audibly with each word highlighted in turn. If so, TTS and the speakers are working. If you cannot hear the Preview Voice and see words highlighted as they are spoken, see &quot;Possible Text-to-Speech Problems&quot; section of this article for troubleshooting solutions. 

Possible Text-to-Speech Problems
If you do not hear speech after testing the system, consider the following:

   1. The speaker volume is not turned up or is muted. Some speakers have external controls for volume and muting. Make sure the volume is turned up sufficiently or that muting is off.

   2. The speakers may not be selected as the current output device. On the Text-to-Speech tab, click Audio Output to make sure that the speakers are selected.

   3. The speakers might not be connected properly. Consult the speaker hardware documentation for additional information. Make certain that the sound card for the computer is also properly seated and installed, and that the correct drivers are available. See &quot;Set Up Speakers&quot; for additional connection information.

   4. The Text-to-Speech engine may be corrupted. To test for corruption, switch to another engine. See the &quot;Changing the TTS voice or engine&quot; section of this article. If another engine is working properly, reinstall the specific engine from the original source. If no engine is working properly, reinstall the speech engine from the original source or CD. 

[http://support.microsoft.com/kb/306902]
