---json
{
  "documentId": "2076072290",
  "title": "“ASP.NET MVC Controller Overview (C#)”; ",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "10/1/2009 8:09:35 PM",
  "modificationDate": "10/1/2009 8:09:35 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "83",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Understanding Action Results

A controller action returns something called an action result. An action result is what a controller action returns in response to a browser request.

The ASP.NET MVC framework supports several types of action results including:

   1. ViewResult – Represents HTML and markup.
   2. EmptyResult – Represents no result.
   3. RedirectResult – Represents a redirection to a new URL.
   4. JsonResult – Represents a JavaScript Object Notation result that can be used in an AJAX application.
   5. JavaScriptResult – Represents a JavaScript script.
   6. ContentResult – Represents a text result.
   7. FileContentResult – Represents a downloadable file (with the binary content).
   8. FilePathResult – Represents a downloadable file (with a path).
   9. FileStreamResult – Represents a downloadable file (with a file stream).

All of these action results inherit from the base ActionResult class.

…you call one of the following methods of the Controller base class:

   1. View – Returns a ViewResult action result.
   2. Redirect – Returns a RedirectResult action result.
   3. RedirectToAction – Returns a RedirectToRouteResult action result.
   4. RedirectToRoute – Returns a RedirectToRouteResult action result.
   5. Json – Returns a JsonResult action result.
   6. JavaScriptResult – Returns a JavaScriptResult.
   7. Content – Returns a ContentResult action result.
   8. File – Returns a FileContentResult, FilePathResult, or FileStreamResult depending on the parameters passed to the method.

So, if you want to return a View to the browser, you call the View() method. If you want to redirect the user from one controller action to another, you call the RedirectToAction() method.

[http://www.asp.net/Learn/mvc/tutorial-03-cs.aspx]
