---json
{
  "documentId": "2076072173",
  "title": "ASP.NET: “Comparing Web Site Projects and Web Application Projects”; MSDN",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "8/9/2009 9:47:04 PM",
  "modificationDate": "8/9/2009 9:47:04 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "83",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

The new Web application project model provides the same Web project semantics as Visual Studio .NET 2003 Web projects. This includes a structure based on project files and a build model where all code in the project is compiled into a single assembly. However, the new project type makes available all the new features of Visual Studio 2005 (refactoring, class diagrams, test development, generics, and so on) and of ASP.NET 2.0 (master pages, data controls, membership and login, role management, Web Parts, personalization, site navigation, themes, and so on).

The Web application project model in Visual Studio 2005 also removes two requirements from Visual Studio .NET 2003:

    * Using FrontPage Server Extensions (FPSE). These are no longer required, but they are supported if your site already uses them.

    * Using a local copy of IIS. The new project type supports both IIS and the built-in ASP.NET Development Server.

The following two tables describe the differences between Web application projects and Web site projects. The first table highlights various scenarios and tasks and suggests which model is best suited to that task. The second table describes in more detail the behavioral differences between each model. Use the tables to guide you in selecting which model to select.

The following table lists Web project options or tasks and indicates which project model best implements those options.

[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa730880(VS.80).aspx#wapp_topic5]
