---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071589",
  "title": "Native Instruments KONTAKT: Installation Journal",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "6/14/2004 3:33:55 PM",
  "modificationDate": "6/14/2004 3:33:55 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "65",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Version 1.5.3: Installed without incident.

Version 1.5.x:

This version was purchased and promptly forgotten about by this procrastinator (it was burned to a CD and &quot;stored&quot;). This memory lapse allowed me to overlook the new elaborate registration process that involves identifying the machine running KONTAKT with the Registration Tool. Once this was sorted out, the 1.5.1.x update was downloaded and applied. This update brought Direct from Disk (DFD) back to the interface. Configuration settings highlights:

* &quot;Normal&quot; Size, 800x600; &quot;Bigger&quot; Size, 1024x768; &quot;Large&quot; Size, 1280x1024.
* File &gt; Setup &gt; Soundcard &gt; Output Latency: 27ms (lower values cause distortion).
* File &gt; Setup &gt; MIDI &gt; Input Interface &gt; In-A USB MidiSport 2x2: On.


Version 1.2.x:

Which horror story to detail first? We'll let's keep it short: West L.A. Music sold me an educational version (the box did not indicate this but the shrink-wrapped CDs were stamped with paper labels marked &quot;educational version&quot;). West L.A. music associates assured me that the educational version is no different from the bona fide retail version and strongly suggested that Native Instruments dumped this product on them and passed the inconvenience to me. The only real problem with this is that the paper labels may not be of archival quality and may destroy the CD in ten years. That's quite a long shot.

The CDs cannot be copied. The default version installed is 1.1.0.010. The 1.2.1 update was downloaded and applied. Here are some first-time buyer highlights:

* The MK4902 connects to the USB Midiman Midisport 2x2 which connects to Songhay5.
* Songhay5, its SPDIF output, plugs into the EMU APS E-Drive on Songhay4.
* The WAV volume slider controls the volume of KONTAKT, its SPDIF output.
