---json
{
  "documentId": "2076072198",
  "title": "WSS 3.0:  MOSS 2007 and WSS 2007 Server Setup; The call to SearchServiceInstance.Provision (server 'YourServerName') failed.; Sahil Malik",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "8/17/2009 5:13:45 PM",
  "modificationDate": "8/17/2009 5:13:45 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "79",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

So I turn on diagnostic logging (which was off by default), on the same page, and here is the rather uninformative error I found deep inside sharepoint logs.

The call to SearchServiceInstance.Provision (server 'YourServerName') failed. Setting back to previous status 'Disabled'. System.ComponentModel.Win32Exception: OSearch ('YourSearchAcct')     at Microsoft.SharePoint.Win32.SPAdvApi32.ChangeServiceConfiguration(String strServiceName, String strAccountName, SecureString sstrPassword, IdentityType identityType, Boolean bDontRestartService)     at Microsoft.SharePoint.Administration.SPProvisioningAssistant.ProvisionProcessIdentity(String strUserName, SecureString secStrPassword, IdentityType identityType, Boolean isAdminProcess, Boolean isWindowsService, String strServiceName, Boolean dontRestartService)     at Microsoft.SharePoint.Administration.SPProcessIdentity.ProvisionInternal(SecureString sstrPassword, Boolean isRunningInTimer)     at Microsoft.... 

I swear - what the hell is the above error message useful for? Not much if you'd ask me. And no I didn't truncate the above error message - Thats about all that got logged. :-/

So what is the solution?

Make sure that you enter the account name for crawling and searching as &quot;Domain&bsol;&bsol;accnt name&quot; EVEN IF they are local accounts. Then you won't get the above error.

[http://blah.winsmarts.com/2006-10-MOSS_2007_and_WSS_2007_-
    _Server_setup_tip.aspx?postID=113]
