---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071762",
  "title": "Ubuntu Linux: Flippant Remarks about Setting Up Ubuntu Server in Virtual PC 2004",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "9/28/2006 1:08:05 PM",
  "modificationDate": "9/28/2006 1:08:05 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "73",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Allocating 48MB of RAM for an Ubuntu Server VM running a LAMP image is reasonable. 96MB seems more than enough for a single-user development environment. The VM hard drive image should be about 1GB.

The foremost issue is getting the console display to appear correctly in Virtual PC 2004. Edit /boot/grub/menu.lst to change the first entry in the list of Automagic Kernels such that:

    kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.10-5-386 root=/dev/hda1 ro quiet splash

becomes

    kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.10-5-386 root=/dev/hda1 ro quiet splash vga=0x314

You can also hit ESC during the GRUB boot sequence and set vga=0x314.

Install hung at times. It was probably looking for updates on the network but the virtual networking was not working. This command made ping work as expected:

    sudo ifconfig eth0 192.168.254.33

The IP address in the example above, 192.168.254.33, should be entered in the Windows HOSTS file for machine/netbios name resolution. Edit the HOSTS file here:

    %SystemRoot%&bsol;&bsol;System32&bsol;&bsol;DRIVERS&bsol;&bsol;ETC&bsol;&bsol;HOSTS

To install new software, the recommendation here is to use APT. See &quot;Package management with apt&quot; here:

    https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AptGetHowto

An excellent summarizing source for Ubuntu Linux hardware tips is &quot;Unofficial Ubuntu 5.10 (Breezy Badger) Starter Guide&quot;:

    http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu#Hardware

This was useful for understanding, say, how accessing a CD-ROM drive works in Linux.

What may prove to be useful is &quot;Linux Guest Support for Virtual Server 2005 R2&quot; covered here:

    http://www.microsoft.com/windowsserversystem/
        virtualserver/evaluation/linuxguestsupport/default.mspx
