---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071517",
  "title": "Caligari trueSpace 5.1: User Manual Highlights, Chapters 4 through 7",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "2004-05-19T04:38:57.000Z",
  "modificationDate": "2004-05-19T04:38:57.000Z",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "62",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Chapter 4: Utilities Group

* This chapter makes it clear that a completely visual interface makes it difficult to locate tools described with words in the manual. I had a very difficult time locating the Add Regular Polygon tool and the Convert NURBS Patch to polyhedron (or curve to Polygon) tool. I recommend creating a custom configuration for the Configuration Library using the tool repository under the Recycle Bin.

* The Polygon Reduction Tool creates new objects in the same location as the original. So move the new object to see it after it is created.

* The Polygon Reduction Tool works with Level of Detail groups (LOD groups) used in VRML.

* I had to add the Move, Spin and Scale Magnetic Object tools to my custom configuration as they were not found in any of the default configurations.


Chapter 5: Primitives

* A straightforward read.

* Use the Help Bar and mouse hovering over the various parts of the Magic Ring to be reminded of its functions.


Chapter 6: Selection and Polygon Edit

* Paint several polygon faces simultaneously by clicking on Paint Face tool in the Material Editor while the faces are selected.

* &quot;Named selections are stored with the object and scene so you can come back and
use these selections throughout multiple sessions.&quot;

* The section entitled &quot;Selecting Multiple Objects&quot; assumes that you are using the Object Tool. This implies that &quot;rectangle select&quot; and &quot;lasso select&quot; do not refer to the polygon face selection tools in section 6.2.

* &quot;You have the option to animate almost all Point Edit functions in trueSpace5... Note that vertex-level animation is incompatible with the DynDiv functions.&quot;

* The Polygon Copy and Polygon Draw tools can create areas on a face that can be textured or extruded apart from the face on which it was drawn.

* The Polygon Slice Tool can work in concert with the Slice by Selected Line/Plane Tool to create a plane for slices. These tools in turn work with the Separate tool to completely remove a sliced section of an object making a new object.
