---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071906",
  "title": "Sun JAXP Tutorial: 2. XML and Related Specs: Digesting the Alphabet Soup",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "2007-10-19T04:53:45.000Z",
  "modificationDate": "2007-10-19T04:53:45.000Z",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "69",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

* “The current APIs for accessing XML documents either serially or in random access mode are, respectively, SAX and DOM…”

* “The XSL standard has two parts, XSLT (the transformation standard, described next) and XSL-FO (the part that covers formatting objects, also known as flow objects).”

* “A DTD can’t restrict the content of elements, and it can’t specify complex relationships.”

* “…a DTD uses syntax which substantially different from XML, so it can’t be processed with a standard XML parser. That means you can’t read a DTD into a DOM, for example, modify it, and then write it back out again… To remedy these shortcomings, a number of proposals have been made for a more database-like, hierarchical &quot;schema&quot; that specifies validation criteria. The major proposals are shown below… RELAX… SOX… TREX…”

* “The following standards aim at preserving the benefits of HTML in the XML arena, and to adding additional functionality, as well… XLink… XML Base… XPointer…”

Knowledge standards: RDF (Resource Description Framework), RDF Schema, XTM (XML Topic Maps)…

Extended document standards: SMIL (Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language), MathML (Mathematical Markup Language), SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics), DrawML (Drawing Meta Language)…

eCommerce standards: ICE (Information and Content Exchange), ebXML (Electronic Business with XML), cxml (Commerce XML), CBL (Common Business Library)…
