---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071693",
  "title": "MCAD/MCSD Notes: Chapter 7, Lesson 3; Interoperating with COM",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "7/29/2005 1:14:34 PM",
  "modificationDate": "7/29/2005 1:14:34 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "83",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Lesson 3: Interoperating with COM

The purpose of this lesson is to expand upon the backwards-compatibility feature set of .NET to include COM &quot;interop.&quot; This lesson makes explicit the relationship .NET has with legacy technologies like VB6. It may help to mention that COM stands for component object model, where the word &quot;component&quot; often indicates the physical boundary in which properties and procedures reside (effectively, this means a .DLL file).

* &quot;When you add a reference to a COM object, Visual Studio automatically generates an interop assembly for the object and places it in the project's /bin folder.&quot;

This assembly can be viewed with Intermediate Language Disassembler (ILDASM.exe). For more information, see &quot;VS.NET Tools: Intermediate Language Disassembler(ILDASM)&quot; at:

    http://www.c-sharpcorner.com/vsnet/IldasmTool.asp

* &quot;Visual Basic 6.0 allowed you create COM properties (Property Let procedures) that were assigned by reference. Visual C# won't recognize those properties.&quot;

This looks like yet another very subtle difference between VB.NET and C#.

* &quot;Visual Studio can automatically generate type library information and register a .NET class library assembly for use from COM. These automatic tools do not work for ASP.NET Web applications.&quot;

One could argue that ASP.NET applications are already interoperable with COM by default since Internet Information Server must still have COM interfaces at least up to version 6.0.

* &quot;The ComVisible attribute allows you to select which public .NET classes and members are included in the generated type library.&quot;

One design pattern shown in the lesson sets the entire assembly to 'hidden' with:

    [assembly: ComVisible(false)]

so that members can &quot;opt in&quot; to COM visibility.

* &quot;.NET handles errors through exception classes. COM handles errors through 32-bit data types called HRESULTs.&quot;

Managed exceptions under COM are mapped to the appropriate HRESULT and vice versa.

* &quot;COM requires objects to be created before use, so it does not support .NET Shared/static members.&quot;

This limitation stands out foremost for managed code running under COM among the lack of support for construtors with parameters and &quot;shadow&quot; members not being callable.
