---json
{
  "documentId": "25904967",
  "title": "PROBLEM: Replication Data Errors Are Generated by Replicable Tables with AutoNumber Fields",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "1998-05-12T19:54:41.000Z",
  "modificationDate": "1998-05-12T19:54:41.000Z",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "64",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

When you convert an Access database to a design master with a replicable table that has data type AutoNumber with the NewValue property set to Increment, this property will be changed to Random. The random number will range in value from -2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647.

If for some reason you manage to change this field's NewValue property back to Increment and proceed to add rows in the design master and its replica, data errors will be generated upon replica-master synchronization.

SOLUTION: Set the NewValue property to Random for a field of data type AutoNumber when designing a table that means to be replicable.

NOTE: (Excerpt from Access 97 Help)

&quot;AutoNumber fields and replication

&quot;If you plan to replicate your database, you need to consider what field size is appropriate for the AutoNumber field used as a table's primary key. If you use an AutoNumber field as the primary key for a table in the replicated database, set its FieldSize property to either Long Integer or Replication ID.

&gt;&gt; &quot;If fewer than 100 records are routinely added between synchronizing replicas, use a Long Integer setting for the FieldSize property to take up less disk space.

&gt;&gt; &quot;If more than 100 records are routinely added between synchronizing replicas, you should use Replication ID for the FieldSize property setting to prevent records from being assigned the same primary key value in each replica. Note, however, that an AutoNumber field with a Replication ID field size produces a 128-bit value that will require more disk space.&quot;
