---json
{
  "documentId": "895437339",
  "title": "The &quot;Full Duplex&quot; Sound Card; Creative Labs AWE32",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "1999-03-03T23:13:25.000Z",
  "modificationDate": "1999-03-03T23:13:25.000Z",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "65",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

A &quot;Full Duplex&quot; sound card has the ability to record and play digital audio simultaneously. Some sound cards compromise on sample rates when they go into full duplex mode. In such a case, full duplex mode is marketed as a telephony feature. The AWE32, however, was not marketed as a device with telephony features but it does drop down into 8-bit mode when it is &quot;forced&quot; to record and play at the same time.

To verify this, I used Digital Orchestrator Plus (DOP) to play digital audio (along with MIDI data) and Cool Edit to record input from a microphone. In order for the AWE32 to record sound at all, I had to prevent DOP from taking control of the input. This means that Device Driver is set to &quot;(None)&quot; under Options &gt; Digital Audio Port Setup &gt; Digital Audio Input &gt; Port(1).

DOP had control of digital audio playback because Device Driver is set to &quot;SB16 Wave Out 220&quot; under Options &gt; Digital Audio Port Setup &gt; Digital Audio Output &gt; Port(1). Setting these two options are not enough. Additionally, we have the following:

    Options &gt; Stereo Playback (checked)
    Options &gt; Device Can Play and Record Simultaneously (checked)
    Options &gt; Enable Wave Sync (checked)
    Options &gt; Play Buffer Seconds (15)
    Options &gt; Record Buffer Seconds (4)
    Options &gt; Default Sample Rate (44100)
