---json
{
  "documentId": "896387122",
  "title": "Email Blurb: Acceptance Letter (PDF)",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "5/23/2002 10:09:16 AM",
  "modificationDate": "5/23/2002 10:09:16 AM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "80",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Thanks:

Thank you for your submission to the kinte space! We would like to present your work on our WWW site. The form of the presentation will be an Adobe Acrobat PDF file. At the kinte space we call this file a &quot;virtual chapbook.&quot; This is the most portable, relatively secure and versatile way to digitize your verse.


About Adobe Acrobat:

For the latest information on this document format please see:

http://www.adobe.com/acrobat/readstep.html


Rights:

You have the right to duplicate the virtual chapbook. Duplication includes printing hard copies. You do not have the right to change its contents or sell it without written permission from Bryan Wilhite.


Publication Date:

You will be notified along with other Haley's Comet recipients when your presentation is ready for publication. Choose a time scale like that of traditional publishing when you judge how far away your publication date is.


Additional Material:

We strongly suggest that you provide us with a bio or background prose about your submitted work. Please provide any published books or audio CDs that you found inspiring. If you are a published writer (meaning you have bound material with an ISBN number assigned to it) please let us know!


Self-Promotion:

If you are in the healthy habit of self-promotion (remember it's not bragging if you can back it up), please mention where some of your online work is---especially your work published in the kinte space!


Thanks again!
