---json
{
  "documentId": "912015905",
  "title": "Microsoft Windows NT 4.0: Core Installation",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "11/26/1998 8:06:56 PM",
  "modificationDate": "11/26/1998 8:06:56 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "71",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Context: DOS 6.22 is required to install Windows 95; Windows 95 is required to install Windows NT.

Install Windows NT from Windows 95 command prompt:

E:&bsol;&bsol;i386&bsol;&bsol;WINNT /B

Choose C:&bsol;&bsol;WINNT for installation directory. Select a Custom installation. Computer Name is &quot;Songhay.&quot; Do not make an Emergency Repair Disk.

Select Components (different from defaults):
    Accessibility Options: (unchecked)
    Accessories &gt; Imaging: (unchecked)
    Accessories &gt; Object Packager: (unchecked)
    Accessories &gt; Paint: (unchecked)
    Accessories &gt; Communications: (unchecked)
    Windows Messaging &gt; Microsoft Mail: (unchecked)

Choose &quot;Do not connect this computer to a network at this time&quot; and continue leaving defaults.


Logged in as Administrator for the first time:

Delete the My Briefcase Icon.

Note: Ports COM1 and COM2 were created by this installation. Ports &gt; Settings &gt; Advanced show &quot;Default&quot; for addresses and interrupts.

User Manager:
    Rename the users &quot;Administrator&quot; and &quot;Guest.&quot;
    Disable the Guest account.
    Add a new user to the Power Users group.
    Set a Home Directory for the new user.

From the User Manager, select Policies &gt; User Rights Policy &gt; Show Advanced User Rights. The Administrators and Power Users groups can &quot;Access this computer from a network&quot;; the Administrators, Power Users and Backup Operators groups can &quot;Log on locally.&quot;

Apply SP3 from MSIE4 CD-ROM. Select Install from PNPISA.INF; PNP will load Diamond SupraExpress 56i Voice V.90 with modem jumpers set to COM1 (03F8, IRQ4); PNP will install Creative Labs AWE 32 (IRQ5, DMA 1, DMA 5, 0220-022F, 0330-0331, 0388-038B); PNP will attempt to install IDE CD-ROM Controller on AWE 32 card (Do not install a driver); PNP will install Creative Labs Advanced Wave Effects Synthesis (0620-0623, 0A20-0A23, 0E20-0E23); PNP will install Microsoft Joystick Port Enabler (0200-0207).

REGEDT32.EXE: set Registry to clear log in user name and swap file.
