---json
{
  "documentId": "916579495",
  "title": "Javascript: Notes on Browser Sniffing",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "1/17/1999 2:43:24 PM",
  "modificationDate": "1/17/1999 2:43:24 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "67",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

&quot;Browser sniffing&quot; is scanning the userAgent property of the navigator object. The userAgent property is a text string that can be &quot;scanned&quot; with the indexOf() method of a String object variable. The indexOf() method can be applied directly to the userAgent property with the form:

    navigator.userAgent.indexOf(&lt;string&gt;)

but, for the sake of designing efficiently, navigator.userAgent is usually set to a variable. A more elaborate but most compartmentalized design is to sniff for browsers with a class function. The following illustrates:

    function jsAgent() {
        
        vAgent = window.navigator.userAgent

        this.ms3x95 = (vAgent.indexOf(&quot;MSIE 3.02&quot;) != -1 &&
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Windows 95&quot;) != -1) ? true:false

        this.ms3xNT = (vAgent.indexOf(&quot;MSIE 3.02&quot;) != -1 &&
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Windows NT&quot;) != -1) ? true:false

        this.ieMac = (vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Mac&quot;) != -1 &&
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;MSIE&quot;) != -1) ? true:false
                    
        this.ieold = (vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Mozilla/1&quot;) != -1 &&
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;MSIE&quot;) != -1) ? true:false
                    
        this.ieX = (vAgent.indexOf(&quot;MSIE&quot;) != -1 &&
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Windows NT&quot;) == -1 &&
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Windows 95&quot;) == -1 &&
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Mac&quot;) == -1) ? true:false

        this.moz3or4 = (vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Mozilla/3&quot;) != -1 ||
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Mozilla/4&quot;) != -1 ||
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Mozilla/5&quot;) != -1) ? true:false

        this.mozold = (vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Mozilla/2&quot;) != -1 &&
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;MSIE&quot;) == -1) ? true:false
                    
        this.agentX = (vAgent.indexOf(&quot;Mozilla&quot;) == -1 &&
            vAgent.indexOf(&quot;MSIE&quot;) == -1) ? true:false
    }

This &quot;class function,&quot; jsAgent(), is looking for two types of browsers: Microsoft Browsers and Mozilla-Standard browsers. Because of Microsoft's historical behavior, the assumption here is that their early browsers may not contain the word &quot;Mozilla&quot; while Netscape browsers (being very intimate with mozilla.org) can be found by looking for &quot;Mozilla.&quot;

The sniffing takes place when jsAgent() is instantiated. Suppose a variable called objAgent is used to instantiate jsAgent(), we then have:

    objAgent = new jsAgent()

Using objAgent, I will make a few remarks. Suppose the following:

    objAgent.ieX == true

This means that we have found a Microsoft Internet Explorer browser on an operating system that is not Windows- or Macintosh-based. For more details on dealing with sniffing for other operating systems (and more), please search for the MS Word .DOC file &quot;Sniffing for Browsers, Java Virtual Machines, and Operating Systems&quot; by Michael Edwards (March 1998) at microsoft.com.

Also suppose that:

    objAgent.agentX == true

This means that we have a browser that is not from Microsoft nor Mozilla-based. This is truly a strange-smelling browser!

Now suppose that:

    objAgent.moz3or4 == true

This means that we have found a browser that can handle CSS1 and HTML 4.0 Transitional without too many problems. As of this writing, such a browser is the best one can reasonably hope for at this proprietary moment in time.
