---json
{
  "documentId": "917563494",
  "title": "Notes on SQL Server Standards and Guidelines",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "1999-02-02T18:30:21.000Z",
  "modificationDate": "1999-02-02T18:30:21.000Z",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "72",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

These are reflections on the SQL standards and guidelines derived through my direct experience in the field. Currently I am not aware of any popular &quot;manuals of style&quot; published by independent third parties.


* After the DBA Gives You a Database

Once a database is available, the time has come to fill it up! SQL server databases can be described by SQL in a text file. The custom that I have acquired is to place the SQL in separate text files: a file for each table, view, data INSERT and stored procedure. These text files are then separated into directories. The directory structure is like this:

    &lt;root database folder&gt;
        tables
        data
        views
        procs

These folders are checked into a code repository (e.g. MS SourceSafe) regularly. These files are managed by tools like Embarcadero's Rapid SQL.


* Code Presentation and Naming Conventions

Without going into too much detail, I will be terse: capitalize SQL key words. Indent and line up code (with spaces) for readablity. View code with a fixed-width typeface. Place commas at the beginning of a line of code and line them up.

Do not use plural table names. Do not use underscores in table names; use mixed case names (e.g. MyTable). Here are the conventions used for stored procedures and views:

    Procedure: DELETE one or more rows
    Prefix: Del
    
    Procedure: INSERT one or more rows
    Prefix: New

    Procedure: INSERT many rows (e.g. from table to table)
    Prefix: Load

    Procedure: SELECT a row
    Prefix: Get

    Procedure: SELECT multiple rows
    Prefix: List

    Procedure: UPDATE or UPDATE/INSERT
    Prefix: Set


* CREATE Database Objects by DROPping Them

As it is very rare (for me) to create a database object correctly the first time, the SQL used to create it should include logic to drop it as well. This is a &quot;replace procedure&quot; that will &quot;overwrite&quot; any previous object of the same name. The following CREATE TABLE SQL illustrates this prudence:

    IF EXISTS(SELECT * FROM sysobjects WHERE name = 'WebDomain' AND type = 'U')
        DROP TABLE WebDomain
;

    CREATE TABLE WebDomain
    (
        WebDomainID NUMERIC(9,0) IDENTITY
        , Name        VARCHAR(64)  NULL
  
        , CONSTRAINT WebDomainPK
        PRIMARY KEY CLUSTERED (WebDomainID)
  
        , CONSTRAINT WebDomainIX00
        UNIQUE NONCLUSTERED (Name)
    )
;

The EXISTS keyword handles the chore of looking for the old object. This is a brutal but effective alternative to ALTER TABLE or sp_rename stuff.
