---json
{
  "documentId": "910205312",
  "title": "SQL: When to Use Dynamic SQL and When to Use Stored Procedures; Views and SELECT Stored Procedures",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "11/19/2007 3:15:47 PM",
  "modificationDate": "11/19/2007 3:15:47 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "72",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

* Dynamic SQL and Stored Procedures

Fundamentally, use Dynamic SQL (that is, SQL built &quot;on the fly&quot; in code) when it is impossible to use Stored Procedures. Many SQL servers cannot use late binding on database objects. In such servers, stored procedures cannot represent table names or column names as variables. When the tables and columns change on the fly, Dynamic SQL is the way to display or affect data.

Beyond this fundamental, the use of stored proc's or Dyamic SQL is matter of code management style. Do you want to deal with hundreds of mysterious stored proc's on the server? Do you want to &quot;hard code&quot; or store SQL strings in &quot;meta-data&quot; tables or client-side application files?


* Views and SELECT Stored Procedures

In short, a View is just another table compared to a Stored Procedure. To show a View, a SQL SELECT statement must be used which is compiled on demand. This is very much unlike a Stored Procedure, which is pre-compiled and &quot;planned&quot; (if, say, WITH RECOMPILE is used for Sybase SQL Servers).

SELECT Stored Procedures are smaller and faster than Views. They are also more complex than Views. They can run loops, decision structures and other logic a View was not designed to handle.

The following is an example of a SELECT Stored Procedure for a Sybase SQL Server:

    IF OBJECT_ID('rpt_get_field_names') IS NOT NULL
        BEGIN
        DROP PROCEDURE rpt_get_field_names
    IF OBJECT_ID('rpt_get_field_names') IS NOT NULL
        PRINT '&lt;&lt;&lt; FAILED DROPPING PROCEDURE rpt_get_field_names &gt;&gt;&gt;'
    ELSE
        PRINT '&lt;&lt;&lt; DROPPED PROCEDURE rpt_get_field_names &gt;&gt;&gt;'
    END
    GO

    CREATE PROCEDURE rpt_get_field_names

    WITH RECOMPILE

    AS

    SELECT
      t_field.field_id
    , t_field.name
    , t_field_lookup.value

    FROM 
      t_field
    , t_field_lookup

    WHERE t_field.field_id = t_field_lookup.field_id

    ORDER BY
      t_field.name
    , t_field_lookup.value
    GO

    GRANT EXECUTE ON rpt_get_field_names TO public
    GO
    IF OBJECT_ID('rpt_get_field_names') IS NOT NULL
    PRINT '&lt;&lt;&lt; CREATED PROCEDURE rpt_get_field_names &gt;&gt;&gt;'
    ELSE
    PRINT '&lt;&lt;&lt; FAILED CREATING PROCEDURE rpt_get_field_names &gt;&gt;&gt;'
    GO
