---json
{
  "documentId": "948096456",
  "title": "WHY DO YOU SKIP BREAKFAST?",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "5/21/2004 11:54:43 AM",
  "modificationDate": "5/21/2004 11:54:43 AM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "81",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

By Lindsay Edwards 

We've all heard that you shouldn't skip breakfast because it's the most important meal of the day. Some say they don't eat breakfast because they don't have time. Others say they don't eat breakfast because it makes them sick. Regardless of the reasons, it's remarkable how many people actually do not eat breakfast. Women, especially, choose not to eat breakfast as a method of losing weight. But skipping breakfast in order to lose weight is not a wise choice. 

When you do not eat in the morning, your metabolism actually slows down. As a result, you burn fewer calories than you would have burned had you eaten a light, sensible meal. Instead of not eating at all, eat a light meal with food that sticks with you throughout the morning. Limiting yourself to carbohydrates, such as toast, only leaves you starving by lunchtime. Eat foods that are rich in protein, such as milk, yogurt, or peanut butter. Foods such as these take longer to digest and leave you feeling satisfied longer. 

For those of you who consider breakfast a time-consuming chore, consider these quick ideas. With a little ingenuity, you too can eat breakfast, in spite of your busy schedule. Try the following for breakfast:

* Cold cereal, low-fat milk, and a piece of fruit 
* Toasted bagel with cheese and juice 
* Yogurt with a fruit-filled breakfast bar
