---json
{
  "documentId": "954818978",
  "title": "THE IMPORTANCE OF CALCIUM",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "date": "2000-04-04T03:30:10.000Z",
  "modificationDate": "2000-04-04T03:30:10.000Z",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "81",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

By Lindsay Edwards 
 
You hear a lot about the need for calcium these days. Though we know that calcium is required for healthy bones and teeth, three out of four women still fail to meet the current recommended daily intake for calcium. Part of the problem may be that many people believe the foods that contain the most calcium are the very foods that contain the most fat. While it's true that milk, yogurt, and cheese are the foods highest in calcium, keep in mind that they're all available now in low-fat versions. You can also get calcium from green leafy vegetables like kale, broccoli, and bok choy; most fruit juices; soy milk; and sardines and salmon (with bones). Be sure to choose foods that are vitamin D fortified, since vitamin D helps the body absorb calcium in food and deposit it in your bones and teeth.

The American Dietetic Association suggests ways to boost the calcium content of your meals and snacks. They are: 
- For a snack, sprinkle yogurt with crunchy breakfast cereals. 
- Sprinkle shredded cheese on an English muffin, bagel, or tortilla 
and heat to melt the cheese. 
- Add a bowl of fortified cereal with milk to your breakfast menu, or have one for a snack. 
- Look for products labeled &quot;calcium rich&quot; or &quot;excellent source of 
calcium.&quot; 
- Pack a calcium-fortified breakfast bar in your briefcase, backpack, or purse for an easy, portable source of calcium. 
- Enjoy a glass of chocolate milk or cafe latte for an afternoon 
pick-me-up.
