---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071428",
  "title": "Caligari trueSpace 5.1: User Manual Highlights, Chapters 1 through 3",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "5/18/2004 9:38:57 PM",
  "modificationDate": "5/18/2004 9:38:57 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "62",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Chapter 1: This is a satisfactory tutorial. No complaints.


Chapter 2: User Interface

* Make sure that the UI matches that in the manual by loading &quot;ts5 configuration&quot; from the Configuration Library.

* Right-click on the New Perspective View Tool to choose a solid or wire frame rendering. This feature applies to all auxiliary windows.

* Click and hold on the Object Tool to show the Global Panel Tool.

* Click and hold on the Draw Object as Solid Tool to show all real-time rendering tools. These options are also available via the Global Panel.

* The View Navigation tools only appear auxiliary windows under the default &quot;ts5 configuration&quot; settings. You can add these tools via the repository in the Recycle Bin Tool (right-click on it).

* You can toggle between axes while dragging the edge of the Object Selector by right-clicking.

* Click on the Selector Orientation Sphere to toggle rotation diamonds.

* The Look at Current Object Tool should prove to be very useful.


Chapter 3: Projects & Libraries

* Almost all end-user customizations are stored in libraries. These libraries can then be &quot;wrapped up&quot; into a Project. By default, trueSpace copies pre-existing libraries into the Project folder.

* Share a Library among multiple projects by selecting File &gt; Load &gt; Library...
