---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071692",
  "title": "XSLT Markup: Flippant Remarks for Procedural Developers Writing XSL Templates; XSLT variables",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "7/21/2005 12:43:11 PM",
  "modificationDate": "7/21/2005 12:43:11 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "84",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

An XSL transformation is an XML document of declarations about how to rearrange the elements and attribute of another, source XML document. An XSL transformation might be seen as a &quot;type&quot; that derives from XML in the same way that any class definition ultimately extends the Object type.

An XSL transformation is made up of templates. Remember they are called &quot;templates&quot;; they are not functions. Templates always have a contextual relationship with the source document.

XSLT variables can only be assigned a value once. By chaining together declarations of variables/parameters based on values of other variables you can simulate mutability. It follows that incrementing a variable in the XSL equivalent of the for-next loop is obtained through a template 'chained' to itself (recursion). For more details about this, please see &quot;Tip: Loop with recursion in XSLT&quot; at:

    http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/xml/library/x-tiploop.html?ca=dnt-626

XSLT variables/parameters are assigned values through their &quot;select&quot; attribute. What may not be readily apparent is that the xsl:variable and xsl:param elements can contain templates and/or xsl:template content. This implies that the procedural programming design pattern of assigning a function to a variable can be achieved in XSLT like this:

    &lt;xsl:variable name=&quot;has_supported_property&quot;&gt;
        &lt;xsl:choose&gt;
            &lt;xsl:when test=&quot;w:rPr/w:b&quot;&gt;true&lt;/xsl:when&gt;
            &lt;xsl:when test=&quot;w:rPr/w:caps&quot;&gt;true&lt;/xsl:when&gt;
            &lt;xsl:when test=&quot;w:rPr/w:i&quot;&gt;true&lt;/xsl:when&gt;
            &lt;xsl:when test=&quot;w:rPr/w:dstrike&quot;&gt;true&lt;/xsl:when&gt;
            &lt;xsl:when test=&quot;w:rPr/w:smallCaps&quot;&gt;true&lt;/xsl:when&gt;
            &lt;xsl:when test=&quot;w:rPr/w:strike&quot;&gt;true&lt;/xsl:when&gt;
            &lt;xsl:when test=&quot;w:rPr/w:u&quot;&gt;true&lt;/xsl:when&gt;
            &lt;xsl:otherwise&gt;false&lt;/xsl:otherwise&gt;
        &lt;/xsl:choose&gt;
    &lt;/xsl:variable&gt;

In procedural terms, the xsl:choose element above is part of an &quot;anonymous template&quot; that returns a value to the variable @has_supported_property. Note that contents of the xsl:when and xsl:otherwise elements are &quot;result tree fragments.&quot; The example above should include xsl:text elements to really show this. This means that XSLT variables can be assigned fragments of XML.
