---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071797",
  "title": "JavaServer Faces in Action Notes: Chapter 1; Introducing JavaServer Faces; 1.5.4 Configuration with faces-config.xml; 1.5.5 Configuration with web.xml",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "3/12/2007 3:15:33 PM",
  "modificationDate": "3/12/2007 3:15:33 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "69",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

1.5.4 Configuration with faces-config.xml

&quot;Technically, JSF supports multiple configuration files, but we'll keep things simple for now.&quot;

&quot;...a JSF configuration file is an XML document whose root node is &lt;faces-config&gt;...&quot;

To reference beans via JSF EL expressions, JavaBeans can be declared with the &lt;managed-bean&gt; element. These beans are called managed beans. The &lt;managed-bean-name&gt; element contains the string that used in JSF EL expressions to refer to the managed bean. You can even initialize bean properties with the &lt;managed-property&gt; element.

&quot;The managed bean name and the object's class name don't have to be the same.&quot;

&quot;A navigation rule specifies the possible routes from a given page. Each route is called a navigation case.&quot; The &lt;navigation-rule&gt; element contains the &lt;navigation-case&gt; element.


1.5.5 Configuration with web.xml

&quot;All J2EE web applications are configured with a web.xml deployment descriptor; Faces applications are no different.&quot; However, JSF deployment descriptors require that the &lt;servlet&gt; element contain a &lt;servlet-class&gt; declaration referencing the FacesServlet (javax.faces.webapp.FacesServlet).

With the &lt;servlet&gt; declaration, a &lt;servlet-mapping&gt; declaration must follow. In Eclipse running a Tomcat-based Dynamic Web Project, the auto-generated &lt;url-pattern&gt; element contains *.faces. This implies that your faces markup in hello.jsp can only be called with hello.faces. This does not imply that the &lt;welcome-file-list&gt; should contain &lt;welcome-file&gt; elements with hello.jsp or hello.faces.
