---json
{
  "documentId": "2076071609",
  "title": "MySQL Adminstration: mysqldump Help Text;mysqldump  Ver 9.11 Distrib 4.0.21; Win95/Win98 (i32); Igor Romanenko, Monty, Jani & Sinisa",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "10/16/2004 8:10:30 PM",
  "modificationDate": "10/16/2004 8:10:30 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "72",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

mysqldump  Ver 9.11 Distrib 4.0.21, for Win95/Win98 (i32)
By Igor Romanenko, Monty, Jani & Sinisa
This software comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY. This is free software,
and you are welcome to modify and redistribute it under the GPL license

Dumping definition and data mysql database or table
Usage: mysqldump [OPTIONS] database [tables]
OR     mysqldump [OPTIONS] --databases [OPTIONS] DB1 [DB2 DB3...]
OR     mysqldump [OPTIONS] --all-databases [OPTIONS]

Default options are read from the following files in the given order:
C:&bsol;&bsol;WINNT&bsol;&bsol;my.ini C:&bsol;&bsol;my.cnf
The following groups are read: mysqldump client
The following options may be given as the first argument:
--print-defaults        Print the program argument list and exit
--no-defaults           Don't read default options from any options file
--defaults-file=#       Only read default options from the given file #
--defaults-extra-file=# Read this file after the global files are read
  -A, --all-databases Dump all the databases. This will be same as --databases
                      with all databases selected.
  -a, --all           Include all MySQL specific create options.
  --add-drop-table    Add a 'drop table' before each create.
  --add-locks         Add locks around insert statements.
  --allow-keywords    Allow creation of column names that are keywords.
  --character-sets-dir=name
                      Directory where character sets are
  -c, --complete-insert
                      Use complete insert statements.
  -C, --compress      Use compression in server/client protocol.
  -B, --databases     To dump several databases. Note the difference in usage;
                      In this case no tables are given. All name arguments are
                      regarded as databasenames. 'USE db_name;' will be
                      included in the output.
  -#, --debug[=name]  Output debug log. Often this is 'd:t:o,filename'.
  --default-character-set=name
                      Set the default character set.
  --delayed-insert    Insert rows with INSERT DELAYED.
  --delete-master-logs
                      Delete logs on master after backup. This automatically
                      enables --first-slave.
  -K, --disable-keys  '/*!40000 ALTER TABLE tb_name DISABLE KEYS */; and
                      '/*!40000 ALTER TABLE tb_name ENABLE KEYS */; will be put
                      in the output.
  -e, --extended-insert
                      Allows utilization of the new, much faster INSERT syntax.
  --fields-terminated-by=name
                      Fields in the textfile are terminated by ...
  --fields-enclosed-by=name
                      Fields in the importfile are enclosed by ...
  --fields-optionally-enclosed-by=name
                      Fields in the i.file are opt. enclosed by ...
  --fields-escaped-by=name
                      Fields in the i.file are escaped by ...
  -x, --first-slave   Locks all tables across all databases.
  -F, --flush-logs    Flush logs file in server before starting dump. Note that
                      if you dump many databases at once (using the option
                      --databases= or --all-databases), the logs will be
                      flushed for each database dumped.
  -f, --force         Continue even if we get an sql-error.
  -?, --help          Display this help message and exit.
  -h, --host=name     Connect to host.
  --lines-terminated-by=name
                      Lines in the i.file are terminated by ...
  -l, --lock-tables   Lock all tables for read.
  --master-data       This causes the master position and filename to be
                      appended to your output. This automatically enables
                      --first-slave.
  --no-autocommit     Wrap tables with autocommit/commit statements.
  --single-transaction
                      Dump all tables in single transaction to get consistent
                      snapshot. Mutually exclusive with --lock-tables.
  -n, --no-create-db  'CREATE DATABASE /*!32312 IF NOT EXISTS*/ db_name;' will
                      not be put in the output. The above line will be added
                      otherwise, if --databases or --all-databases option was
                      given.}
  -t, --no-create-info
                      Don't write table creation info.
  -d, --no-data       No row information.
  -O, --set-variable=name
                      Change the value of a variable. Please note that this
                      option is deprecated; you can set variables directly with
                      --variable-name=value.
  --opt               Same as --add-drop-table --add-locks --all --quick
                      --extended-insert --lock-tables --disable-keys
  -p, --password[=name]
                      Password to use when connecting to server. If password is
                      not given it's solicited on the tty.
  -W, --pipe          Use named pipes to connect to server
  -P, --port=#        Port number to use for connection.
  -q, --quick         Don't buffer query, dump directly to stdout.
  -Q, --quote-names   Quote table and column names with a `
  -r, --result-file=name
                      Direct output to a given file. This option should be used
                      in MSDOS, because it prevents new line '&bsol;&bsol;n' from being
                      converted to '&bsol;&bsol;r&bsol;&bsol;n' (carriage return + line feed).
  -S, --socket=name   Socket file to use for connection.
  -T, --tab=name      Creates tab separated textfile for each table to given
                      path. (creates .sql and .txt files). NOTE: This only
                      works if mysqldump is run on the same machine as the
                      mysqld daemon.
  --tables            Overrides option --databases (-B).
  -u, --user=name     User for login if not current user.
  -v, --verbose       Print info about the various stages.
  -V, --version       Output version information and exit.
  -w, --where=name    Dump only selected records; QUOTES mandatory!
  -X, --xml           Dump a database as well formed XML.
  --max_allowed_packet=#
  --net_buffer_length=#
  -i, --comments      Write additional information.

Variables (--variable-name=value)
and boolean options {FALSE|TRUE}  Value (after reading options)
--------------------------------- -----------------------------
all-databases                     FALSE
all                               FALSE
add-drop-table                    FALSE
add-locks                         FALSE
allow-keywords                    FALSE
character-sets-dir                (No default value)
complete-insert                   FALSE
compress                          FALSE
databases                         FALSE
default-character-set             (No default value)
delayed-insert                    FALSE
disable-keys                      FALSE
extended-insert                   FALSE
fields-terminated-by              (No default value)
fields-enclosed-by                (No default value)
fields-optionally-enclosed-by     (No default value)
fields-escaped-by                 (No default value)
first-slave                       FALSE
flush-logs                        FALSE
force                             FALSE
host                              (No default value)
lines-terminated-by               (No default value)
lock-tables                       FALSE
no-autocommit                     FALSE
single-transaction                FALSE
no-create-db                      FALSE
no-create-info                    FALSE
no-data                           FALSE
port                              3306
quick                             FALSE
quote-names                       FALSE
socket                            (No default value)
tab                               (No default value)
user                              (No default value)
verbose                           FALSE
where                             (No default value)
max_allowed_packet                25165824
net_buffer_length                 1047551
comments                          TRUE
