---json
{
  "documentId": "916272579",
  "title": "Netscape Enterprise Server 3.5.1 Administration: Setting Up Restricted Access",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "1/13/1999 4:40:20 PM",
  "modificationDate": "1/13/1999 4:40:20 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "68",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

To set up Restricted Access we need to create the user(s) and groups (if applicable), specify a restricted path and set permissions for the path.

Creating user(s) and groups: Choose General Administration &gt; Users and Groups &gt; New User. Under New User, you are required to specify Surname, Full Name and User ID. Entering a password is highly recommended. When this form is filled press the &quot;Create User&quot; button.

Specify a restricted path: Choose Servers Supporting General Administration &gt; (your server name) &gt; Server Preferences &gt; Restrict Access.

Under Access Control List Management, click &quot;Browse…&quot; under heading &quot;A. Pick a resource.&quot; Select the directory in your web you want to restrict access to from the next display (&quot;Choose a Part of Your Server&quot;).

Under Access Control List Management, click the &quot;Edit Access Control&quot; button under heading &quot;A. Pick a resource.&quot; When this Java applet starts, check the &quot;Access control is on&quot; box. This applet is a table with columns Action, Users/Groups, From Host, Rights, Extra…, Continue. For now, we can only be concerned with the first two columns.

In these two columns we first want to &quot;deny&quot; access to &quot;anyone&quot; ---this means the Action column is set to &quot;Deny&quot; and the Users/Groups is left as &quot;anyone.&quot; Please see your online help for more details. Press the &quot;New Line&quot; button. This will make a second row in this table. For the second row, we want to &quot;allow&quot; access to the user created earlier.

When this is completed, press the &quot;Submit&quot; button. This will bring up the Save and Apply Changes display. Press the &quot;Save and Apply&quot; button to save these changes.
