---json
{
  "documentId": "1734126835",
  "title": "Compaq: 1610: Procedure For Re-calibrating The Battery Gauge",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "10/3/1999 11:06:51 AM",
  "modificationDate": "10/3/1999 11:06:51 AM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "66",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Procedure For Re-calibrating The Battery Gauge

Models Affected: All models running Windows 95/98

Symptom: The battery gauge always reads 0%

Resolution: 

The battery gauge on the unit is an estimate only of the true battery charge, therefore can give an inaccurate reading, such as staying at 0% even though the unit has been charging for a long period of time. To re-calibrate the battery gauge, perform the following:

Turn unit off - Remove the battery and the AC adapter. 
Look on the back of the battery for a small white dot. 
Press the white dot with your finger and the meter will light up. This meter shows the true battery charge. 
Leave the computer off for anywhere between 30 seconds to 1 min. 
Re-attach the AC adapter only and turn on the computer. 
After the computer has loaded into windows, reinsert the battery. 
Wait 15 to 30 seconds for new battery gauge reading. 
If this does not resolve the problem, our technicians online are available to assist you through the Compaq Support Forum.


This information is subject to change without notice. Compaq Computer Corporation assumes no responsibility for error or omissions herein 1997 (R) Copyright. Compaq Computer Corporation. Product names mentioned herein may be trademarks and/or registered trademarks of other companies.
