---json
{
  "documentId": "2076072375",
  "title": "Silverlight 3.x Plug-In Parameters; Laurent Duveau",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "5/4/2010 9:45:14 PM",
  "modificationDate": "5/4/2010 9:45:14 PM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "83",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

allowHtmlPopupWindow [Boolean]

Specifies whether the HtmlPage.PopupWindow  method is allowed. Defaults to true for applications in the same domain, otherwise false.


autoUpgrade [Boolean]

Specifies whether the plug-in should attempt to upgrade if minRuntimeVersion is newer than the current Silverlight version. Default is true.


background [Color with or without alpha (RGB, ScRGB)]

Plug-in background color. Default is null (white).


enableAutoZoom [Boolean]

Indicates whether the host (for certain platforms) can invoke zoom behavior that increases the DPI. Default is true.


enableCacheVisualization [Boolean]

Indicates whether to use a non-production analysis visualization mode, which shows areas of a page that are being GPU accelerated with a colored overlay. Default is false. Do not use in production code.


enableFramerateCounter [Boolean]

Indicates whether to display the current frame rate in the hosting browser's status bar (IE/Win only).


enableGPUAcceleration [Boolean]

Indicates whether to use graphics processor unit (GPU) hardware acceleration for cached compositions, which potentially results in graphics optimization. (false by default)


enablehtmlaccess [Boolean]

Specifies whether the plug-in has full access to the browser DOM. Defaults to true for applications in the same domain, otherwise false.


enableNavigation ['all' | 'none']

Indicates whether the hosted content in the Silverlight plug-in can use a HyperlinkButton to navigate to external URIs. Default is all. 	

    all: the hosted content can use HyperlinkButton to navigate to any URI.

    none: the hosted content cannot use HyperlinkButton for navigation to an external URI. Relative URIs for internal navigation are still permitted.


enableRedrawRegions [Boolean]

Determines whether to visually indicate the areas of the plug-in that are being redrawn with each frame. This property is for performance tuning and visualization during development only; do not specify it for any deployed Silverlight-based application. Default is false.


initParams 

User-defined string of parameters. 	Comma separated key=value pairs


maxframerate [Integer]

Specifies the maximum number of frames per second that the plug-in can render. The default is 60.


minRuntimeVersion 

Specifies the earliest version of the Silverlight plug-in required. 	Version number


onError [JavaScript function name]

Error handler for parse and native code run-time errors.


onFullScreenChanged [JavaScript function name]

Function to call when the FullScreen property changes.


onLoad [JavaScript function name]

Function to call when the plug-in has finished loading in the DOM.


onResize [JavaScript function name]

Function to call when the plug-in size changes.


onSourceDownloadComplete [JavaScript function name]

Function to call when the source download has completed.


onSourceDownloadProgressChanged [JavaScript function name]

Function to call when the source download progress changes.


onZoom [JavaScript function name]

Specifies the handler for a Zoomed event that occurs when the Silverlight plug-in content area receives a host-generated zoom event.


source  [URI]

Specifies the address or relative path of either an initial XAML file or XAP.


splashScreenSource [URI]

Specifies a XAML page to use as the splash screen.


windowless [Boolean]

Specifies the rendering mode for the plug-in for Windows versions of Silverlight. The default is false.

[http://weblogs.asp.net/lduveau/archive/2009/07/22/silverlight-3-object-tag-param-list-aka-where-is-my-asp-silverlight-control.aspx]
