---json
{
  "documentId": "896193729",
  "title": "material@kintespace.com: Automatic Reply to E-mail",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "12/6/1998 9:26:03 AM",
  "modificationDate": "12/6/1998 9:26:03 AM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "80",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

Welcome to the kinte space: cyberverse for the masses... and volumes. Out here, a whirl of ideas wake out of a world pool, beyond the kente fabric of reality... beyond all thang we dream about!


On Poetry Submissions

If you submitted original verse to us, thank you. Please make sure you have sent more than one piece so we can give your voice a fair hearing. Judgement will be passed on your work. To get an idea on how ideas are expressed in the kinte space please see

http://www.kintespace.com/kpoetry.html

we even provide books you may want to read or review giving some depth to the deep in the kinte space. When submitting work to the kinte space, do not let all the computer stuff fool you. We still take a long time (just like any paper literary publication) to review your work. How large is &quot;a long time&quot;? It could be months or a week---or a day. Sorry about the uncertainty.


On &quot;threads&quot; Submissions

If you have sent a comment to the kinte threads, we will review and reserve our thanks once we see how constructive your critique or praise will be. We are aware of the automated &quot;guest book&quot; but such technology does not censor hate mongers. Only us humans can do that.

When submitting threads posts to the kinte space, do not let all the computer stuff fool you. We still take a long time (just like any paper literary publication) to review your work. How large is &quot;a long time&quot;? It could be months or a week---or a day. Sorry about the uncertainty. Please see

http://www.kintespace.com/kthreads.html

to see if your comment appeared in the kinte threads.


NOTE: All e-mail addresses sent to kintespace.com will be placed on our mailing list. This list is used about every other month to inform you of new additions to this site and events or topics of interest. If you do not want to be on this mailing list please write rasx@kintespace.com.
