---json
{
  "documentId": "951375547",
  "title": "WHEN AND WHAT TO EAT AROUND YOUR EXERCISE SCHEDULE",
  "documentShortName": "",
  "fileName": "",
  "path": "",
  "createDate": "5/21/2004 11:54:43 AM",
  "modificationDate": "5/21/2004 11:54:43 AM",
  "templateId": "",
  "segmentId": "81",
  "isRoot": "False",
  "isActive": "True",
  "sortOrdinal": "",
  "clientId": "",
  "tag": ""
}
---

By Lindsay Edwards 
 
Did you know that eating too much food and eating the wrong food before exercising can interfere with your performance, causing indigestion, weakness, nausea, and vomiting? Timing when and what to eat around your exercise schedule is very important for maximizing the benefits of exercise. 

The main goal of good nutrition is to consume foods that provide benefits to the body. When you add exercise to the equation of healthy living, keep the following pointers in mind. 

Prior to your exercise workout: 
* Eat a high-carbohydrate, low-fat snack one to two hours before your exercise routine. This type of snack is easily digested, and it normalizes blood sugar. 
* Avoid foods high in fat content, since fat lingers a long time in the stomach.
* Moderate your protein intake. Eat only enough to satisfy, not surpass, your hunger. 
* Drink plenty of fluids. 

 
During your exercise workout: 
* A sip of sweetened drink is acceptable, since your body uses sugar during exercise. 
* Consume approximately a 30-gram carbohydrate every 30 minutes to get an added energy boost. Sports drinks are specially designed for consumption during exercise. 
* Remember that water is certainly an option. 
 
After your exercise routine: 
* Consume a high carbohydrate to replace glycogen and water lost during exercise. Juices work best. 
* Add solid foods one to three hours later, preferably a protein meal to repair and build muscle tissue.
